# colorshuffle
A Rainbow Spectrum Shuffle Algorithm

This is my shuffle algorthym.  I took the deck algorhym as the base (as the assignment said we could) and heavily modified it to generate colors, rather than text.

Figuring out how to generate the colors along a familiar spectrum was the hard part.  At first, I tried doing the .each function with a set of values for each color, but that resulted into groups of spectrums, rather a single spectrum throughout.

Finally, I decided to visit (http://html-color-codes.info/) and study how the RGB values changed in the "HTML Color Picker" when I placed the dot in the top right corner.  I noticed a basic pattern that broke down into six sections:  One channel with a value of 0, one channel with a value of 255, and one channel that either counts up or counts down from 0-255.

There was no easy way to get a single function that generates all six sections, so instead I decided to run the same function 6 different times.  Where as the class demo uses the option array within a function itself, I had to modify the code to accept different arrays by parameter.

In each use of the Rainbow function, two of those arguments/channels will have one one potential variation in the array, and the last has a range of options in an array that either count up or count down.

To avoid redundant code, I had the countUp and countDown arrays set as variables, which could they be inserted into the rainbow function on demand.  i.e., " new Rainbow([255], countUp, [0]);"

However, when planning this code out, I didn't how big I wanted the array out, and I didn't want to have to constantly redo the math.  So I created a new function called "countGenerator", which generates the arrays for countUp and countDown.  countGenerator relies on the "colorGradients" variable, which can be changed at the beginning of the script, and which is currently set at 128.  It then plots the number of values from 0-255 accordingly, while rounding down.

The shuffle algorthm in class was modified.  I wanted the shuffle to start from the beginning and work it's way down, rather than vice verse.  So I added a new variable called "colorStart" that starts at zero and counts upwards, rather than starting at m and counting down.

In the original shuffle algorthym, the value of m is generated by "shuffle($('.cards').length);".  However, there seems to be a bug.  I added "console.log(m) to the shuffle algorthym."  Apparently, the value of m starts at zero, and goes into negative literally forever (the code won't stop until it gets to zero, but it can never get to zero since it keeps going further into negative).  So apparently there's an error in how .length is calculated.  Since I'm not sure what that error is, I simply did a work around where I created a new variable called "colorCount," which starts at zero and gets added to whenever a new line is added.

To make the code more fun, I used the audio tag to add Kermit singing "Rainbow Connection" in the background while the code was running.  I also made it so that the delay is variable.  The value of delay = 56 seconds / number of lines.  This means that the shuffle will complete at about the same time that Kermit completes his singing.

Font was taken from Google Fonts, since I wanted something that looked more stylish than the standard web fonts.

I kept the instances where I used console.log preserved in the comments.  There's not functionally necessary, but I thought I would keep them for the sake of "show your work."

In the event that colorGradients is set to a smaller number, line height can be modified in the CSS.
